<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating-a-datastage-test-case"><title>Creating a DataStage test case</title><body><p>DataStage® test cases are design-time assets that use data files to define the inputs and expected outputs of your DataStage flows.</p><p>The basic building blocks of a test case are:</p><ul><li>A test specification</li><li>One or more test data input files</li><li>One or more test data output files</li></ul><p>Each DataStage test case is associated with a single DataStage flow. You can create DataStage test cases from the Asset browser or directly from within the DataStage designer canvas.</p><ul><li>Creating a DataStage test case</li><li>Editing a DataStage test case</li><li><xref href="creating-a-datastage-test-case.dita#creating-a-datastage-test-caselearn-more">Learn more</xref></li></ul></body><topic id="creating-a-datastage--test-case"><title>Creating a DataStage  test case</title><body><p>You can create DataStage test cases either from the Asset browser or directly from within the DataStage designer canvas.</p><p><b>From the asset browser</b></p><ol><li>Open an existing project or create a new project.</li><li>Click <b>New asset +</b> &gt; <b>Create DataStage test case</b>.</li></ol><p><b>From the DataStage canvas</b></p><ol><li>Open an existing DataStage flow or create a new flow.</li><li>Click the <b>Test cases</b> icon to open up the test cases side panel.</li><li>Click <b>New test case +</b></li></ol></body></topic><topic id="defining-your-test-case"><title>Defining your test case</title><body><ol><li>On the Create test case page specify the name and optional description for the DataStage test case.  If you invoked this action from the asset browser you'll also need to specify a DataStage flow with which to associate this test case. Click <b>Next</b>.</li><li>On the Select stubbed links page select the flow links which will be stubbed in the test.  This determines the ...<ul><li>input links into which test data will be injected, and</li><li>output link from which data will be compared to the expected output.</li></ul></li><li>Click <b>Next</b></li><li>Specify the names of Parameters or parameter sets to for which your test will supply values. Click <b>Create</b>.</li></ol></body></topic></topic>